{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\fs44\b Jukebox AWS PostgreSQL Setup Reference\par
\fs24\b0
Reference notes for the AWS RDS PostgreSQL setup completed on May 6, 2026.\par
\par
\b 1. Goal\par
\b0
Connect the Jukebox backend running on EC2 to an AWS RDS PostgreSQL instance over SSL.\par
\par
\b 2. AWS Resources Used\par
\b0
RDS DB identifier: jukebox-db\par
RDS engine: PostgreSQL\par
RDS endpoint: jukebox-db.cbgmumkuafkd.eu-north-1.rds.amazonaws.com\par
Region: eu-north-1 (Stockholm)\par
EC2 instance: i-01e955ee3d006aa30\par
\par
\b 3. Security Group Wiring\par
\b0
The EC2 instance and RDS instance were initially attached to different security groups.\par
\par
EC2 security group:\par
sg-0af5784cb0ec3898a (launch-wizard-1)\par
\par
RDS security group:\par
sg-0c6cf319dfcf2fc44 (default)\par
\par
Required inbound rule on the RDS security group:\par
Type: PostgreSQL\par
Protocol: TCP\par
Port: 5432\par
Source: sg-0af5784cb0ec3898a / launch-wizard-1\par
\par
Existing self-reference rule on the default security group was left in place:\par
All traffic from sg-0c6cf319dfcf2fc44 / default\par
\par
\b 4. Important Notes\par
\b0
Test the database connection from the EC2 instance terminal, not from CloudShell, when validating app-to-database connectivity.\par
If any database password is exposed in a terminal or screenshot, rotate it immediately in RDS.\par
AWS does not show an existing DB password after it is set. If forgotten, reset it through RDS Modify.\par
\par
\b 5. Connect to the EC2 Terminal\par
\b0
In AWS Console:\par
1. Go to EC2.\par
2. Open Instances.\par
3. Select the instance.\par
4. Click Connect.\par
5. Use EC2 Instance Connect.\par
\par
\b 6. Install PostgreSQL Client on EC2\par
\b0
Amazon Linux 2023 command:\par
{\f1\fs22 sudo dnf install postgresql15 -y\par}
\par
Verify installation:\par
{\f1\fs22 psql --version\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 7. Download RDS Certificate Bundle\par
\b0
Run on EC2:\par
{\f1\fs22 curl -o global-bundle.pem https://truststore.pki.rds.amazonaws.com/global/global-bundle.pem\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 8. Set Connection Variables\par
\b0
Run on EC2:\par
{\f1\fs22 export RDSHOST="jukebox-db.cbgmumkuafkd.eu-north-1.rds.amazonaws.com"\par}
{\f1\fs22 export PGPASSWORD='YOUR_PASSWORD_HERE'\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 9. Test Admin Connection\par
\b0
Run on EC2:\par
{\f1\fs22 psql "host=$RDSHOST port=5432 dbname=postgres user=jukebox_admin sslmode=verify-full sslrootcert=./global-bundle.pem"\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
Successful connection looked like:\par
{\f1\fs22 postgres=>\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
Verification query:\par
{\f1\fs22 SELECT version();\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 10. Create the Application Database and User\par
\b0
Inside psql as jukebox_admin:\par
{\f1\fs22 CREATE DATABASE jukebox;\par}
{\f1\fs22 CREATE USER jukebox_app WITH PASSWORD 'YOUR_APP_PASSWORD_HERE';\par}
{\f1\fs22 GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE jukebox TO jukebox_app;\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 11. Test the Application User\par
\b0
Exit psql with:\par
{\f1\fs22 \q\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
Then set the app password and reconnect:\par
{\f1\fs22 export PGPASSWORD='YOUR_APP_PASSWORD_HERE'\par}
{\f1\fs22 psql "host=$RDSHOST port=5432 dbname=jukebox user=jukebox_app sslmode=verify-full sslrootcert=./global-bundle.pem"\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
Verification query:\par
{\f1\fs22 SELECT current_user, current_database();\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
Expected result:\par
current_user = jukebox_app\par
current_database = jukebox\par
\par
\b 12. Clear Password Variables After Testing\par
\b0
Run on EC2:\par
{\f1\fs22 unset PGPASSWORD\par}
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 13. Spring Boot Values for Later Use\par
\b0
These are the connection values to use in the backend configuration:\par
DB_HOST = jukebox-db.cbgmumkuafkd.eu-north-1.rds.amazonaws.com\par
DB_PORT = 5432\par
DB_NAME = jukebox\par
DB_USERNAME = jukebox_app\par
DB_PASSWORD = the chosen jukebox_app password\par
\par
\b 14. Troubleshooting Reference\par
\b0
timeout: security group or routing issue\par
password authentication failed: wrong username or password\par
psql: command not found: PostgreSQL client not installed on EC2\par
certificate verify failed: wrong certificate path or SSL settings\par
\par
\b 15. Outcome\par
\b0
The EC2 instance successfully connected to the RDS PostgreSQL instance over SSL, the jukebox database was created, the jukebox_app user was created, and application-user login succeeded.\par
}
